Objective 1.1 focuses on the following concepts: battery, keyboard, random-access memory (RAM), storage drives, wireless cards, and physical privacy and security components.
Many laptops also have storage drive and wireless LEDs, which can tell you more about the status of the laptop when you can’t see anything on the screen. Use them!
Power is crucial! When troubleshooting, go through the entire power system step by step, including the power button, battery, DC jack, AC adapter, and AC outlet.
Use the Fn key in combination with the F1–F12 function keys to configure many things, including media options, Wi-Fi access, brightness, the touchpad, and an external monitor.
If available, press the Num Lock key to enable/disable the numeric keypad on a laptop. If the Num Lock indicator light is on, then the numeric key is enabled.
The Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) is the underlying setup system for a laptop or PC. We’ll discuss that and the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) more in Chapter 16, “Motherboards and Add-on Cards.”
ESD can occur when two objects with different voltages come into contact with each other.
Another type of pointing device is a pointing stick, known within Lenovo laptops as the TrackPoint. This device is implemented as a small rubber cap (that looks like an eraser head) just above the B key or as two buttons that work essentially the same as a touchpad’s buttons.
Know that SODIMM DDR3 has 204 pins and SODIMM DDR4 has 260 pins. Understand the pin format differences between them and standard DIMMs (used in PCs).
Storage drives are often referred to as “hard drives.” While this term is probably not accurate for a drive being used in a laptop today, it is still a commonly used term that you should be ready for.
Know that laptop storage drive types include SSD, magnetic disk, and hybrid. Also, be aware that they have either 2.5- or 1.8-inch form factors.
Be careful with M.2 drives. They create a lot of heat, and in a laptop’s tight environment, overheating is a possibility.
If a laptop can’t connect to a wireless network, try pressing the Wi-Fi button—either a button associated with a function key or a standalone button near the keyboard.
Know the various ways that a laptop could communicate with other computers, including wired and wireless Ethernet, Bluetooth, and cellular WAN connections.
Turning on airplane mode will disable wireless transmissions such as NFC; however, it can also disable your ability to connect to Wi-Fi or send/receive calls. Remember this for troubleshooting purposes!
Know that you can increase the security for your laptop, but there is never a 100% secure solution because any security technique can be bypassed given time, persistence, and ingenuity. So, for example, a cable lock can help, but don’t rely solely on that—or on any other single security precaution.
Objective 1.2 focuses on the following concepts: LCD, IPS, TN, VA, OLED, mobile display components, Wi-Fi antenna connector/placement, camera/webcam, microphone, touch screen/digitizer, and inverter.
The CompTIA A+ objectives list important concepts that you need to know for the exam, but the list is not finite. By this, I mean that there might be other associated technologies that are not listed but that you might be tested on. So, at times, I add content to this book that goes further than the listed objectives. Be ready to study beyond the objectives to fully prepare for the exam—and for the real world.
Know that a screen inverter’s job is to convert DC voltage from the motherboard into AC voltage to be sent to the backlight.
Warning! The inverter should not be handled if the laptop is on! Incorrect handling could result in personal injury. Be sure to turn off and unplug the laptop and remove the battery before removing an inverter.
As you can guess, LED and OLED screens do not suffer as many failures as CCFL-based LCDs do, mainly because LEDs and OLEDs do not incorporate (or need) an inverter or a lamp. Consider that when making technology purchases.
Be prepared to have very small screwdrivers available. Laptop and mobile device repair kits often come with these types of screwdrivers. Also be prepared for more “proprietary” types of screws that require fewer common screwdrivers.
Know where to find the webcam and microphone within a laptop display and know how to disable them.
Be able to identify M.2 and Mini PCIe cards by name and by sight.
Objective 1.3 focuses on the following concepts: wired connection types such as Micro-USB, Mini-USB, USB, USB-C, Lightning, and serial interfaces; wireless connectivity such as NFC, Bluetooth, and hotspots; and accessories such as touch pens, headsets, speakers, webcams, docking station port replicators, and track-pads/drawing pads.
Know your mobile device ports and connectors. Remember that Android devices generally use USB-C (with older ones using Micro-USB), and iOS-based devices use USB-C or Lightning.
Understand the difference between configuring USB tethering (which is wired) and creating a mobile hotspot (which is wireless).
NFC is used for close-proximity transactions, such as contactless payments.
Note the difference: A laptop is placed, or “docked,” into a docking station. In contrast, a port replicator is connected to a laptop simply to provide additional ports.
Objective 1.4 concentrates on the following concepts: wireless/cellular technologies, Bluetooth setup, location services, mobile device management (MDM) and mobile application management (MAM), email configuration, and mobile device synchronization.
For simplicity, most of the time I use the term cellular to refer to smartphone connectivity to a telecommunications provider, meaning 3G, 4G, 5G, and so on.
Understand how to connect to a Wi-Fi network in Android, iOS, and iPadOS.
Know the CompTIA process for configuring Bluetooth: 1. Enable Bluetooth; 2. Enable pairing; 3. Find a device for pairing; 4. Enter the appropriate PIN code; 5. Test connectivity
IMAP 143 993 Know the email protocols/ports: SMTP = 25/465/587; POP3 = 110/995, IMAP = 143/993.
Another protocol you might implement when setting up secure email is S/MIME (Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions). This is used for authentication and message integrity and is built into some email clients.
Know the different cellular standards and that 5G can transmit at 20 Gbps.
PRL updates help you get better coverage by keeping your device on preferred networks.
Do not attempt a radio firmware (baseband) update if your phone does not require it. A faulty update can easily make the phone inoperable.
Corporate access policies can also be controlled by location data. For example, geofencing, which uses location-based services, can trigger an action when a mobile device enters or exits a specific geographic area called a geofence.
Know that GPS technology is integrated into mobile devices to help a user navigate while driving (among other things) but that it will be useless if location services is disabled.
You might also opt for a service such as Nextcloud, which you can run locally on your own server, as well as connect to in the cloud. Check it out!
Keep in mind that you might also back up your data, but this is different from synchronization. For example, you might back up an Android-based device’s apps, call history, contacts, device settings, SMS text messages, and other items that are normally stored locally. You could back up this data to a server on the cloud owned by the manufacturer of the mobile device, or you could use a separate service, such as Google Drive. Either way, this is done separately from synchronization.
Exchange ActiveSync can be used to synchronize email, contacts, and calendars between a variety of devices (iOS-based devices, Windows devices, etc.) with Microsoft Exchange Server.
As of the writing of this book, if you use Android and are using the smartphone only (with no vehicle screen), the GPS-based navigation software is simply known as Maps or, if enabled, Google Assistant Driving Mode. If used in conjunction with the vehicle’s screen, it is known as Android Auto.
Understand that MDM is software that is used to update and secure mobile devices from a central location. MAM focuses on managing specific corporate mobile applications.
Objective 2.1 concentrates on the following concepts: ports and protocols such as FTP, SSH, Telnet, SMTP, DNS, DHCP, HTTP, POP3, NetBIOS/NetBT, IMAP, SNMP, LDAP, HTTPS, SMB/CIFS, and RDP. It also covers the differences between TCP and UDP.
The exam objectives list FTP port 20. Historically, after connecting to an FTP server on port 21, a client would use port 20 for the actual data transfer. That is still possible, but today, most FTP client programs randomly and dynamically assign ports for data transfer.
Computers in a LAN are connected by a central connecting device, the most common of which are switches and wireless access points (WAPs). Hubs can also be used, but those are deprecated devices; they are predecessors of switches. A router is designed to connect two networks. Now, you might say, “Wait! My router at home has four ports on the back for computers to talk to each other.” Well, that is actually the switch portion of a SOHO “router.” The actual router functionality is in the connection between the two networks—your switched LAN and the Internet. A bridge is used to connect two LANs or separate a single LAN into two sections.
Objective 2.2 focuses on the following concepts: routers, switches, access points, patch panels, firewalls, Power over Ethernet (PoE), hubs, cable modems, digital subscriber line (DSL), optical network terminals (ONTs), network interface cards, and software-defined networking (SDN).
A switch is responsible for transmitting data from two or more wired computers. It often works at data transfer rates of 1000 Mbps or 10 Gbps.
A managed switch can allow an admin to control settings and network traffic. An unmanaged switch simply allows LAN devices to communicate without user intervention.
Know that a router connects networks and uses software-configured network addresses to make forwarding decisions.
A wireless access point (WAP) is responsible for transmitting data between two or more wireless computers, usually at 6 GHz, 5 GHz, or 2.4 GHz frequencies.
A firewall provides controlled access between networks. Firewalls can be hardware or software based and are essential to network security.
Power over Ethernet (PoE) devices include power sourcing equipment (PSE) and a powered device (PD).
Newer versions of PoE use all four pairs of wires on a twisted pair cable and also implement phantom power—allowing data and power to be sent simultaneously over all pairs.
One example of a NID is an optical network terminal (ONT). When you see the word optical, think fiber optic cables, which have the ability to transmit massive amounts of data. In some urban areas, businesses and homes can get fiber to the premises, which means that a fiber optic cable is run directly to the premises by the provider. It terminates at an ONT, where it can be split off for services such as voice, data, and television, which will usually run on copper-based cables from the ONT to the inside of the customer’s premises. The ONT (and any type of NID) is normally accessible only by employees of the fiber optic provider.
Don’t confuse an optical network terminal (ONT) with an optical line terminal (OLT). An OLT is an endpoint for fiber optic cables that are run inside an organization’s premises for use with high-speed data transfer between hosts and/or networks.
The hub is the original connecting device for computers on a LAN. It creates a simple shared physical connection that all computers use to send data. It’s a basic device that has multiple ports, usually in intervals of four. Internally, a hub actually has only one main circuit that all the ports connect to. (In contrast, a switch has a matrix of circuits.) A hub regenerates and passes on the electrical signals initiated by computers, broadcasting data out to all computers on the network. The computer that it is meant for accepts the data; the rest of the computers drop the information. Because of this broadcasting and sharing, this device allows only two computers to communicate with each other at any given time.
Objective 2.3 focuses on the following concepts: 802.11 protocols (a, b, g, n, ac, and ax), frequencies, channels, Bluetooth, NFC, RFID, and long-range fixed wireless.
Know the frequencies used for each of the 802.11 versions!
Though it’s not listed in Objective 2.3, I suggest you also look into 6 GHz. It has a larger frequency width and the potential to offer more channels than 5 GHz. As of the writing of this book, the 802.11ax standard can also use the 6 GHz range, but it must be with compatible Wi-Fi 6E devices. (2022)
All the wireless frequencies and channels that we have discussed so far are unlicensed. This means that anyone can use them, and they are not reserved for any government or organizational entity.
Don’t stand so close to me! Seriously, make sure your selected Wi-Fi channel is in its own “space” by investigating the airwaves with a Wi-Fi analyzer.
Objective 2.4 concentrates on the following concepts: server roles (DNS, DHCP, file servers, print servers, mail servers, syslog, web servers, AAA), Internet appliances, legacy/embedded systems, and IoT devices.
You could also purchase or build a network-attached storage (NAS) server, which is a basic box that often contains two or more storage drives and connects directly to the network. A NAS server usually runs some variant of Linux. We’ll discuss NAS further in Chapter 15, “Storage Drives.”
A proxy server is used primarily as a go-between for a client and the website accessed. It is commonly used to cache information so that the information exists on the proxy server, and another user accessing the same web page won’t have to get it from the Internet; this increases general performance and efficiency. For a client computer to use a proxy server, the web browser needs to be configured properly (as described in Chapter 37, “Windows Networking”).
A DNS server resolves hostnames to IP addresses and vice versa.
Know the differences between file servers, web servers, print servers, email servers, proxy servers, DHCP servers, DNS servers, syslog servers, and AAA servers. You might also want to tie in these concepts to the ports that the servers use (see Chapter 5, “TCP and UDP Ports and Protocols”).
An intrusion prevention system (IPS) is a solution that can detect and prevent attacks from entering a LAN or an individually protected server. An IDS, on the other hand, only detects attacks and doesn’t prevent them. A proxy server is used to cache and monitor Internet traffic and other types of traffic. An authentication server is used to identify users and allow/disallow access to a system or network based on the users’ credentials.
A load balancer provides for equal distribution of IP traffic among a set of servers, increasing redundancy and performance.
Objective 2.5 focuses on the following concepts: Internet Protocol (IP) addressing; IPv4 and IPv6; Automatic Private IP Addressing (APIPA); and static, dynamic, and gateway addressing.
Navigation may differ slightly depending on the version of Windows and the way it is configured. Be ready for alterations over time and be ready to use the search tool to simplify the process (or the Run prompt, whenever possible).
Know the difference between static and dynamic IP addresses.
APIPA (Automatic Private IP Addressing) is a system used on Windows to automatically self-assign an IP address in the 169.254.x.x range in the absence of a DHCP server.
To use the gateway, computers must be on the same network number as the gateway device.
Know where and how to configure client-side DNS and DHCP settings.
Know the loopback addresses for IPv6 and IPv4.
Understand how IPv6 addresses can be truncated.
Objective 2.6 focuses on the following concepts: DNS, DHCP, VLANs, and VPNs.
Hostname + Domain name = FQDN (fully qualified domain name).
Be able to identify DNS Address (A and AAAA) records, Mail Exchange (MX) records, and Text (TXT) records for the exam.
A DHCP scope is a range of IP addresses that a DHCP server can hand out to clients.
An IP lease is the amount of time that a client can use an assigned IP address in a DHCP system.
DHCP reservations are IP addresses within the DHCP scope that are permanently reserved.
Remember that VLANs are commonly used for network segmentation.
Know that a VPN extends a LAN by establishing a secure connection tunnel through a public network such as the Internet.
Objective 2.7 concentrates on the following concepts: Internet connection types (cable, DSL, fiber, satellite, cellular, and WISP), and network types (LAN, WAN, PAN, MAN, SAN, and WLAN).
Fibre Channel is widely used for high-speed fiber networking and has become common in enterprise SANs.
A SAN (storage area network) often makes use of Fibre Channel connections and switches to connect NAS points and other data storage devices together into a super-fast network. A wide area network (WAN) is a network that connects two or more LANs together. Digital subscriber line (DSL) is a type of Internet service, as are cable Internet and wireless Internet service providers (WISPs).
Be able to define, compare, and contrast LAN, WAN, MAN, SAN, WLAN, and PAN.
Broadband cable, used for cable Internet and cable TV, is very common in the United States and many other countries. It offers download transfer rates from 50 Mbps to 1000 Mbps (depending on the ISP).
Know that cable Internet connections use RG-6 coaxial cable and F-connectors to the cable modem.
A group of ADSL technologies offer data transfer rates of anywhere from 8 Mbps download/1 Mbps upload to 52 Mbps download/16 Mbps upload, and newer, faster technologies are being developed as of the writing of this book. ADSL is often offered to consumers who cannot get cable Internet.
With SDSL, upload and download speeds are the same, or symmetrical. Maximum data transfer rates for typical versions of SDSL are 1.5 Mbps and 5 Mbps (depending on the version).
Instead of using a copper connection to the home or business the way cable Internet, DSL, and dial-up do, some companies offer fiber optic connections directly to the customer. With fiber to the premises (FTTP), optical fiber is installed and used from a central point directly to individual buildings, such as residences, apartment buildings, and businesses.
FTTP service typically runs over a fiber optic line to a network interface device (NID) at the home or office (specifically an optical network terminal); from there, it changes over to copper, which then makes the connection to the customer’s router or individual computer. This copper connection could be a twisted pair patch cable (for example, a Cat 6 cable) or a coaxial cable using the Multimedia over Coax Alliance (MoCA) protocol. Examples of companies that offer FTTP include Verizon (Fios) and Google (Google Fiber).
Fiber optic cables can run at much higher data transfer rates than copper-based cables. Home-based fiber optic Internet connections can typically download data between 100 Mbps and 1000 Mbps. Upload speeds are typically less, as they are in most other Internet services, but they are substantially higher than other broadband options.
With satellite connectivity, a parabolic antenna (satellite dish) connects via line-of-sight to a satellite; it is used in places where standard landline-based Internet access is not available.
A wireless Internet service provider (WISP) is an ISP that specializes in wireless networking and builds a wireless mesh network using one of several licensed or unlicensed frequency bands. A WISP’s main function is to provide Internet service to customers who cannot obtain service from cable, DSL, or fiber providers or who do not want those services.
Objective 2.8 focuses on the following networking tools: crimper, cable stripper, tone generator and probe, cable tester, loopback plug, punchdown tool, loopback plug, Wi-Fi analyzer, and network tap.
A network tap is a physical device used to capture and copy data packets for analysis.
A Wi-Fi analyzer is a tool that can identify wireless networks and the channels/frequencies they use.
Objective 3.1 concentrates on the following concepts: network cables, peripheral cables, video cables, hard drive cables, adapters, and connector types.
Know what network speeds Cat 5, 5e, and 6/6a are rated for.
If a computer cannot connect to the network, check the network cable first. Make sure the RJ45 plug has a solid connection.
To meet fire code, use plenum-rated cable above drop ceilings and anywhere else necessary.
STP cable is resistant to EMI.
Make sure you know cable terminology such as RJ11, RJ45, F-connector, and RG-6 for the exam.
Be able to identify straight tip (ST), subscriber connector (SC), and Lucent Connector (LC) fiber optic connectors.
Memorize the specifications for USB 2.0 (480 Mbps) through 3.2 (10/20 Gbps).
Know the Thunderbolt versions, speeds, and connection types.
Remember that DE-9 (DB-9) is a 9-pin connector used for serial cable and RS-232 data transmissions.
Be able to identify VGA, HDMI, Mini-HDMI, DisplayPort, and DVI video connectors and ports.
Know your storage drive cables, including SATA, SCSI, eSATA, and IDE.
Objective 3.2 concentrates on the following concepts: RAM types (DDR3, DDR4, DDR5, and SODIMM), single channel, dual channel, triple channel, quad channel, error correction code, and virtual RAM.
Be able to identify a 288-pin DDR4 module.
Remember: DDR3 is 240-pin; DDR4 and DDR5 are 288-pin—and none of them are compatible with each other!
Some mobile devices use low-power versions of DDR (known as LPDDR3, LPDDR4, and LPDDR5).
There are plenty of good third-party tools for analyzing RAM as well, such as CPU-Z. -David Prowse
Know how to select, install, and verify RAM.
Know the difference between single-, dual-, triple-, and quad-channel for the exam.
Know that ECC RAM can prevent data loss and potential system crashes by automatically correcting memory errors.
Objective 3.3 focuses on the following: hard drives, SSDs, drive configurations, and removable storage.
SATA technology is used by magnetic hard drives and solid-state drives.
Know the maximum data transfer rates for SATA Revisions 3.0 and 3.2.
You might also see some organizations refer to SATA measurements using the units Gbit/s or Gbps, instead of Gb/s, but they mean the same thing.
Data Transfer Discrepancy: If you divided by 8 to determine rates for SATA Revision 3.0, the actual data written to the drive would be less than you would expect. This is due to overhead in the form of encoding. That brings Revision 3.0 down from 6.0 to 4.8 Gb/s (which equates to 600 MB/s). SATA 3.2 is not affected by this.
HDDs come in two main widths: 3.5 inch and 2.5 inch. 3.5-inch drives are used in desktop computers, network-attached storage (NAS), and other larger devices. 2.5-inch drives are used in laptops and other smaller devices. Generally, HDDs use the SATA communications interface. They are typically sold with data storage capacities of 500 GB, 1 TB, 2 TB, 4 TB, and beyond.
HDDs are still somewhat common because they have been available for a long time and are generally cheaper than solid-state drives. (2022).
A solid-state drive (SSD) is used to store operating systems and files, similar to a magnetic hard disk drive. However, SSDs don’t use spinning disks or read/write heads; they instead write data to non-volatile microchips.
Also listed in the objectives is mSATA (which is short for Mini-SATA). This is a type of connector that was used in laptops for SSDs. An mSATA drive has a single notch, as opposed to two notches on laptop-based M.2 devices that use the 2242 form factor. M.2, by the way, supersedes the mSATA specification.
A typical operating system such as Windows displays a 500 GB drive as having a capacity of 476 GB (or 465 GB or a similar number). This is due to a difference in numbering systems used to measure the drive. A hard drive manufacturer uses the base 10 system, whereas Windows uses the base 2 system, resulting in a slightly lower number. No actual space is lost during this conversion!
Know the differences between the various types of RAID: RAID 0 (striping), RAID 1 (mirroring), RAID 5 (striping with parity), and RAID 10 (stripe of mirrors).
Remember to safely remove USB flash drives in the operating system before physically disconnecting them.
Tip: Sometimes a USB or other flash-based solid-state device can’t be removed with the Safely Remove Hardware option in Windows. If this happens, consider shutting down the computer before physically disconnecting the device to avoid data corruption or loss.
If an optical disc gets jammed in an optical drive tray, use a paper clip! It can be inserted into the small hole next to the tray. Add one to your PC toolkit!
This portion of Objective 3.4 concentrates on the following concepts: motherboard form factors and connector types; motherboard compatibility; BIOS/UEFI settings; encryption; and expansion cards.
Know the voltages supplied to an ATX motherboard by a power supply: +3.3 V, +5 V, +12 V, and –12 V outputs and +5 V standby output.
Make sure you can identify the PCIe x16 and x1 expansion slots for the exam.
Note: You will find that sometimes the operating system installs a driver automatically. At times, this driver is good enough, but many times you will want the latest drive from the manufacturer.
Know how to install and test a video card.
Know how to install, configure, and test sound, network, USB, and eSATA expansion cards.
Know how to set the BIOS boot options! Also, if you boot a PC and see a black screen with a white blinking underscore on the top left, the issue could be the boot order.
It is crucial to secure UEFI-equipped systems with Secure Boot and a TPM.
The POST is a built-in troubleshooting tool provided by the motherboard. Use it!
The BIOS indicates any system problems that the POST finds via either onscreen display codes, beep codes, or an integrated error code readout on the motherboard itself. 
This portion of Objective 3.4 concentrates on the following concepts: CPU architecture, compatibility, and cooling.
For today’s CPUs, two of the most commonly used terms are bus speed (the base clock of the motherboard) and clock speed (the frequency of the CPU). These terms might not be completely accurate, technically, but you will see and hear them often, and you could see them on the exam as well.
Note: While not the only CPU architectures that exist, x86-64 and ARM architectures are by far the most common.
Know the differences between multithreading and multicore technologies. Multi-threading enables a single-core CPU to calculate two instruction sets simultaneously, whereas multicore CPUs have two or more cores, each of which can use multithreading.
Compatibility is key! Find the correlation between sockets, chipsets, and CPUs by analyzing the motherboard and CPU documentation.
Reapply thermal paste whenever removing and reinstalling a heat sink.
Of all PC cooling methods, liquid cooling systems can dissipate heat the most efficiently, but they are usually only necessary for the most powerful PCs.
Note: You can view basic CPU information in Windows at the System Information window, which can be accessed by opening the Run prompt and typing msinfo32.
Objective 3.5 focuses on the following: input 115 V vs. 220 V, output 3.3 V vs. 5 V vs. 12 V, 20-pin to 24-pin motherboard adapter, redundant power supply, modular power supply, and wattage rating.
Be able to identify the main 24-pin power port/connector and the CPU’s EATX12V 8-pin port/connector.
The purpose of “dual-rail” PSUs is to separate and limit the current through each wire to avoid overheating.
Remember that the PSU wattage rating refers to the maximum amount of power the PSU can output under 100% load capacity.
Be able to identify SATA, Molex, and PCIe power connectors, know their associated voltages, and know their number of pins.
Don’t confuse 8-pin PCIe power connectors with 8-pin CPU connectors! To tell the difference, look for the label! Also, the PCIe video connector will usually separate two of the pins so that you can use it in 6-pin or 8-pin scenarios.
To determine if a PSU without a voltage switch is truly dual-voltage, look for the phrase “100-240 V input” or something similar.
Many PSUs still come with a Berg connector for backward compatibility. It’s a smaller 4-pin connector used with the venerable 3.5-inch floppy drive.
PCIe power can be 8-pin or 6-pin. CPU power (EATX12V) can be 8-pin or 4-pin. SATA power is 15-pin (and data is 7-pin). ATX main power is typically 24-pin. Molex is a 4-wire connector; it is sometimes also referred to as “peripheral.”
What the gamer needs to be concerned with is the maximum amount of power all the devices need collectively, especially the GPU (or GPUs), CPU, and RAM. The PSU wattage rating refers to the maximum amount of power the PSU can output under 100% load capacity. By adding all the devices’ power consumption together, the gamer can get a clearer picture of how powerful a power supply is needed. The gamer should also consult the PSU manufacturer’s website for exact requirements. A power supply calculator on the Internet can be used to find out how many watts the gamer might need. Redundant PSUs are very common on servers and some other high-end systems but not as often on gaming systems.
Objective 3.6 concentrates on the following concepts: properly unboxing a device, setup location considerations, use of appropriate drivers for a given OS, device connectivity, public/shared devices, configuration settings, security, network scan services, and automatic document feeder (ADF)/flatbed scanners.
Know the differences between the printer driver types: PCL (more common, used for typical office printing) and PostScript (less common, used for professional graphics).
Know the following printer configuration settings: duplex, collate, orientation, tray settings, and quality.
Note: You can also make a computer’s devices visible when Windows is first installed. We’ll discuss this and network discovery in the Windows networking section of this book.
Printer security can be implemented through user authentication and policies, badging, and Secure Print. Audit logs can be used to see what was printed, where it was printed, and who printed it.
